--- 
title: "ANN: braid 0.5 - vendor your git and svn repositories"
extension: html
directory: 2008/10/29
tags: 
- bdd
- braid
- giston
- git
- piston
- ruby
- svn
author: Cristi Balan
filter: 
- erb
- textile
categories: 
- development
- home
blog_post: true
filename: braid-0-5-vendor-your-git-and-svn-repositories
layout: post
created_at: 2008-10-29 14:41:00 +01:00
---
"Braid":http://github.com/evilchelu/braid/wikis/home is a simple tool to help track git and svn vendor branches in a git repository.

This is a major release that brings two main features (no more braid/track branch and better merging support) and lots of usability changes, bugfixes and tweaks.

The "braid project page":http://github.com/evilchelu/braid/wikis/home has now moved to github, mainly because we wanted to use the wiki for documentation.

Braid now also has a google group. If you have questions or ideas about braid, please subscribe to "http://groups.google.com/group/braid-gem":http://groups.google.com/group/braid-gem.

h3. Installing

  gem install braid

h3. Important changes from 0.4

* removed braid/track branch
* use merge-recursive to allow changes from upstream to be automatically merged in
* added local cache to workaround git fetch limitations

h3. Other changes from 0.4

* improved messages
* refactoring all around
* moved to test/spec from rspec
* basic integration tests

h3. Coming soon in braid 0.6

* braid switch
* braid format-patch
* braid import
* braid outdated
* braid list
* bash completion
* possibly, windows compatibility
