--- 
title: "ANN: braid 0.3.0"
extension: html
directory: 2008/02/13
tags: 
- bdd
- braid
- giston
- git
- piston
- rspec
- ruby
- svn
author: Cristi Balan
filter: 
- erb
- textile
categories: 
- development
- home
blog_post: true
filename: ann-braid-0-3-0
layout: post
created_at: 2008-02-13 22:25:00 +01:00
---
h3. Update

"braid 0.3.2":http://evil.che.lu/2008/2/14/ann-braid-0-3-2 was released to fix some major bugs

"Braid":http://evil.che.lu/projects/braid is a simple tool to help track svn and git vendor branches in your git repository. It used to be called giston and was more hackish.

There is no direct way to update your giston mirrors to braid mirros, sorry :(. You know, life on the edge and stuff, heh.

h3. Get it

  git clone git://github.com/evilchelu/braid.git
  cd braid
  rake install_gem
  braid --help # see usage

h3. giston 0.3.0 changes from giston 0.2.0

* using YAML::Store to save config
* using git merge-subtree with git and git svn remotes to track repositories

Rubyforge project on the way. I'll update this page when it's ready.

Have fun and please let me know of any bugs, complaints, ideas or patches you might have.

h3. Usage

From the README:

create a git repo

  git init moo
  cd moo

ideally you will also do these, but they are just good practices

  git config --global merge.summary true
  git checkout -b localwork

adding mirrors

  braid add git://blah
  braid add svn://muh
  gitk braid/track
  git merge braid/track

updating mirrors

  braid update muh
  braid update
  git merge braid/track

removing mirrors

  braid remove blah
  braid remove muh
  git merge braid/track
