--- 
title: "ANN: braid 0.3.2"
extension: html
directory: 2008/02/14
tags: 
- bdd
- braid
- giston
- git
- piston
- rspec
- ruby
- svn
author: Cristi Balan
filter: 
- erb
- textile
categories: 
- development
- home
blog_post: true
filename: ann-braid-0-3-2
layout: post
created_at: 2008-02-14 13:17:00 +01:00
---
If you got "braid":http://evil.che.lu/projects/braid from the git repository before 12:40GMT, please pull the latest changes.

The 0.3.0 version has a bug where it will clone the mirrored svn repositories entierly. braid 0.3.1 just grabs the HEAD revision and this is significantly faster.

h3. Changes

BUGFIXES

* braid was fetching entire repositories for svn mirros. changed to fetch only HEAD
* workaround for stupid git svn behaviour. it is transforming all _ (underscores) into . (periods) in git svn remote branch names
** braid now is replacing all _ with - preemtively

BUGS

* braid only works with a quite recent git (I'm using latest from the git git repo). I know that git 1.5.2 definitely doesn't work (git fetch is acting up). Not sure about versions in between.

h3. Updating

  cd braid
  git pull
  rake install_gem

h3. Get it

  git clone git://github.com/evilchelu/braid.git
  cd braid
  rake install_gem
  braid --help # see usage

h3. Sighseeing

Mihai Anca has written a nice article showing some real world braid usage: "Installing rspec with braid":http://ropiku.wordpress.com/2008/02/04/installing-rspec-with-braid/

He also helped track down the stupid bugs in the 0.3.0 release. I have beers already prepared.
